hey guys April here from smolitics today
we are going to do a leg and total body
workout emphasis on the legs and the
booty this is going to be a part of a
series called strong for summer where
I'm helping you and other petite women
get fit and I'm gonna do all workouts
live with you and teach you the
movements with proper form so we can
really focus on gaining strength it's
gonna be super hard you're gonna die
it's gonna burn but it's gonna be really
fun and I'll be dying with you so no
excuses okay are you guys ready okay
guys so all you need for this is one
dumbbell I'm using a 12 pound dumbbell
but you can use whatever is comfortable
for you if you're just starting out and
this is your first time ever weight
training I would suggest using a 5 pound
dumbbell or 10 pound dumbbell and then
progressing your weights from there but
you want to make sure you're choosing a
weight that's challenging you so the
first exercise we have is the goblet
squat you're gonna put your hands
underneath the dumbbell and straight to
your chest you're gonna make sure your
shoulders are back your core is tight
and you're pulling your shoulder blades
your shoulder blades together in the
back your feet are going to be in hips
distance about shoulder distance
actually apart your toes turned out 30
degrees and you're going to squat down
that's one we're going to 12 3 you're
looking at the floor not up and around
make sure your spine is nice and aligned
exhaling on the way up
[Music]
[Applause]
that's our first exercise in our first
superset the next exercise is going to
be a hamstring curl you're gonna place
your dumbbell at the end of your mat and
you're going to be picking it up with
your feet it's gonna feel awkward at
first but I promise you will feel it
you'll get the hang of it
you're gonna crisp grab it grasp it with
your feet and slowly curl up 90 degrees
and then slowly down squeezing your
thighs together whoo you guys are gonna
feel this I'm already so sore from my
workout yesterday
this workout is gonna kill me good
squeezing those slides together
you're really gonna feel it in your
hamstrings
[Music]
Oh already fill over left to right here
tell me write it and one more don't
forget to bring you guys and if you're
new to strength training and just
getting started don't be intimidated and
go ahead and explain everything
what we just did is called a superset
where we pair two exercises together and
we did it back-to-back so we're gonna
move into our second superset now we'll
get a rest at the end doing back to the
goblet squats remember hands right down
to the dumbbell everything's nice and
tight you're gonna squat down making
sure your toes are out turn it out
slightly and you're driving your knees
out over your feet so I don't want to
see your knees caving in none of this
action good squeeze those together at
top
[Music]
do you more good and straight back into
your hamstring curls
remember to keep your glutes and your
core nice and tight and you know have
your arms up here or you can keep it
down here it just makes your neck it's
not sticking up not putting this stress
on your spine
that's noticing all these Springs coming
[Music]
just make sure we're gonna do one more
set of this superset right here here we
go last superset with your squat depth
you want to remember to come just below
parallel so you're getting that glute
engagement and you're not just in your
quads they don't
I'm coming back with the money in the
bag the rule is in my lap
[Music]
and when we went through our last set or
hamstring curls you probably seen at the
gym they have a hamstring curl machine
but a lot of times for petite women it's
just too big even the smallest setting
you can't get the placement right and it
really just results in a really
inefficient range of motion for our
bodies and for the exercise so this was
a good alternative where you can control
the range of motion they'd be stunning
now I don't see the bigger picture we
but cut it now all I'm saying is the man
that I'm becoming he gonna take the new
addition and a woman now okay that's our
first superset we're gonna take 30
seconds right here to just rest before
we move in to our next superset which is
going to be split squats and single like
Romanian that much I'm gonna take this
break with you guys if you haven't seen
already I recently posted a really
healthy breakfast recipe it is a very
very few ingredients that you can create
some pancakes with it's a really good
alternative to
Bisquick on your Saturday mornings check
it out on my Instagram and to give this
video a like if you're enjoying it so
far and you're sweating and working hard
with me okay times up heading into the
slit squat and you're going to need your
extra pair of dumbbell for this I think
I might have said that you only needed
one sorry guys I lied so we're going to
split spot you're going to be in an
athletic lunge stance your back heel is
up and you're going to drop your back
knee to the ground like so keeping your
memory keeping your shoulders back I
don't want to see
in like this chest is nice and big and
actually thing that I want you to add
into this I want you to hang slightly
forward at the hips and you're gonna
drive through that front heel right here
what this is going to do is it's going
to engage your glutes a lot more than if
your back this is more of a quad
exercise and if your forward this is a
glute exercise we'll call that six
because I count seven eight nine who
would feel like with ten eleven and
twelve switch it up forward making sure
that your neck is not jutting out you're
looking at usually few feet in front of
you so that your spine is nice and
aligned two more that's good and now
we're going to move into single leg
Romanian deadlift I just have my workout
pulled up on my laptop so who've never
done this exercise before I was just
doing it without weights just to get
pain of it you're going to be on a
single leg one leg and hinging at the
hips to come over me is nice and soft
not bending your knee like a squat but
rather dead lifting meaning you're
hinging at the hips if you have done
this exercise before or you're finding
it this is easy grab a weight in one
hand usually it could be either hand if
you want to counterbalance yourself you
can do it
sit on your foot and you'll just come
down we'll call that three or I'm really
sorry buds now five want to try to keep
your heel pointing up to the ceiling and
your hips square into the floor so
instead of like this hold on
Square those hips to the floor and if
you lose your pounds like me that's okay
last one good switch sides if you're
doing the reaching single leg business
that's okay too
again this is a hamstring exercise
obviously a compound movement you're
pulling weight you're also using your
arms and your shoulders your back like
me much don't even know me I'll be now
here oh I don't know if you guys can
tell don't let your girls sweating okay
back into our split squat if you need to
between each two percent you can pause
my video and take a 30-second break but
I want you to push yourselves not to
take more than 30 seconds rest between
two percent oh okay all right here we go
the second superset remember hinging
Port at the hips chin is nice and tucked
everything plants in alignment shoulders
are back core is tight
Teddy Teddy yeah why always be steady on
my grind I'm a keeper me only I know why
do you see you guys tomorrow and I'm
doing it with you so you know this is
real and switching it up you'll be
naming Nami board hold on no I don't
want to make sure that your knee is
directly over your toe and not keeping
in as well all right moving on to our
single leg here we go guys
starting with whichever leg feels
hardest I like to say usually that's
your right knee that's your left leg I
would to just get the hard one out of
the way although I'm not doing that now
because I am ready myself Oh
remember to breathe nice to take core
going back down to about mid-shin and
don't be afraid don't be worrying about
what balance just for one being perfect
those good time actually perfect
is that a meeting in progress seriously
is if you're just working out the gym
you're just getting started and you're
afraid to lift in the weight section you
can get some dumbbells and learn the
basics at home with me here and then you
can transition this into your routine
whenever you feel comfortable everyone
starts at some point right so okay
lots to write here keeping that back leg
engaged you can feel that and if you're
doing your right we want you to make
sure you're keeping a nice flat back
when you're doing it not rounding over
you'll feel your lower back muscles
really engaged in this exercise alright
switching it up split lunge here we go
this is our last set guys hang in there
hi maybe have a couple more exercises
just two more you got this last one good
and this is our last split lunge on this
side really leaning forwards getting
that glute pressing through that heel on
the way up
working the leg just in front of you at
this point your heart rate should be up
- last one whew oh my gosh am i moving
too much
okay so what's it like every time I face
that's okay though it's kind of the goal
all right let's do this
our last set of Romanian deadlifts I'm
gonna start with my left leg this time
get it all the way
[Music]
alright guys last one
you could even take this they do with
you into the gym and workout in the
corner with me that'd be fine there's no
shame in doing that so I have Wi-Fi
connection you're good to go
all right guys great job with that next
set of exercises we're doing our
dumbbell swings and some sumo pause
deadlifts so maybe you've heard of my
gosh it's how two reps we're taking a
30-second break by the way so you might
have heard of pebbles things we are
doing dumbbell swings which is
essentially like hip hinging movement
kind of like we just did hinging with at
the hips for our single leg except we're
going to be on both legs dumbbell is
going to view in our hands right here
and we're going to be keeping that flat
back swinging and hip thrusting so
instead of up and down we're really
sending our hips back knees soft and
then squeezing our glutes together and
push it up forward so it's all hip
hinging motion all right guys get your
last little break in little sip of water
and meet me back at the mat let's get to
it all right so you're gonna grip the
bar Maribel's at the dumbbell just like
this put one hand over the other or if
it's big enough you can grab it with two
usually us petite someone could do that
so finding New York Athletic stands to
us turned up thirty degrees and you're
in swing back
good using your breath exhaling when you
come up eight nine ten and last one all
right good job this one don't be worried
if you didn't get the hang of it the
first time we're gonna keep practicing
it next you're gonna hold it down low
like so and your hands right out in
front of you nice wide stance wider than
your squat toes are turned out quite a
bit further because we're trying to
engage the glutes with this soon I'll
pause the squats or a deadlift if you're
going to squat down pause for a second
shoot back up that's one two making sure
that your knees are out over your toes
[Music]
two more last one
all right back into our kind of all
swings this is a great workout to boost
your metabolism it's a very movement
involved the challenging this is Barry's
doing compound movements that are
challenging our whole body while also
targeting the legs hamstrings glutes and
quads all right here we go it's one
might come back and hit you in the bus
that's okay two more last one all right
good job now back to our sumo deadlifts
meet me out here now a lot of people
have goals for the summer to get fit but
I think anytime you get it you want to
focus more on your health it's a good
time to focus on it for petites getting
extra muscle on will help boost your
metabolism because muscle burns more
calories at rest in fat and we need to
boost our metabolisms more than anyone
last two because height and metabolism
are correlated and if you're shorter
you're going to have a slower resting
metabolic rate so we really got to speed
it up through these metabolic workouts
and our strength training all right back
to our kettlebell swings or dumbbell
swings in this case really squeezing
your core nice and tight this is also a
great core exercise
[Music]
last one
whoo okay we're gonna be really close
the end of this workout guys so if
you're dying do not give up almost there
[Music]
mr. Simmons number one desirable I do
what I want when I want and how I want
it if you eat that one yeah I got you to
throw out here I'm gonna roll pop makes
it a lot harder
[Music]
and gonna sound delusional right now but
I don't know if those two sets of great
finger it's 3/4 it if it wasn't cause
this oh ok guys that's it for the
dumbbells put those away now we are
gonna finish out with a little metabolic
blaster for our legs to finish getting
our heart rate up like a little hit
towards in we are going to be doing 30
jump lunges rest for 20 seconds and then
30 jump lunges repeating times 5 so
right now we're gonna take a couple more
seconds of a break after that superset I
know I need it guys can see this coming
in closer you're like alright oh let's
do this okay guys get ready we're going
to be jumping switching on our lights
back and forth we're gonna do 30 reps
total then we're gonna stop put a second
thing are you ready go I'm sorry this is
not the most apartment friendly you
right now hopefully you're not close
someone who are trying to sleep
[Music]
okay ten more ten okay 20 seconds on the
top do your thing
breathe as you guys can hear my heart
rate is definitely elevated ten more
seconds
first ones out of the way you ready
three two one
this is really good I hope you burn fat
[Music]
Oh
Oh Rick you guys yesterday I was at the
gym
and I squatted the barbell I did a ton
of leg exercises so I'm doing this on
some very sore legs so I know you can do
it three two one
let's go guys I'm doing with you
[Music]
we are more than halfway done all right
10 seconds how are you guys feeling good
give this video a thumbs up if it's just
what you needed today and meet me back 3
2 1 this is our 4 set high intensity
interval training no shame in the game
guys people watch you in your cup some
reason entertaining people maybe you're
watching this right now time to it but
for you to the Jenna if you learned
something from it ok last one right here
let's go 3 2 1 because our last time
today guys we need 10% men ok guys I had
some technical difficulty so I'm gonna
coach you through audio to the last 10
reps that you have you're so close
just hang in there for a count of 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 and 10
you're done I am so sorry that I had to
hop on audio alright guys I hope you
enjoyed this workout I hope that it was
difficult challenging also educational
and informational for you I hope you
learned some new exercises and enjoyed
it and if you liked this video please
subscribe I'm going to be doing this
series summer strong for summer and
releasing various total body workouts
that emphasize different first of all
body some hit workout and other things
so thanks for watching I hope you had a
good workout and I'll see you next time
bye
[Music]